ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY
ORGANISING COMMITTEE NATIONAL SEMINAR
Gangadhar Meher University (GMU), Sambalpur was established on
30 May 2015 by the Government of Odisha, evolving from the historic PATRONS:
Gangadhar Meher Autonomous College. Tracing its roots to 1944 as Prof.(Dr.) Susanta Kumar Das, Vice Chancellor, GMU “Artefacts Speak:
Sambalpur College, the institution was renamed in 1949 in honour of Prof. (Dr.) Gyanranjan Swain Chairman, PG Council,GMU
renowned Odia poet Gangadhar Mcher and has since grown into a Shri Sanat Kumar Naik, Registrar, GMU Indian Knowledge Systems in
major centre of higher education in Western Odisha.
With a strong legacy of academic excellence, the institution Traditions Across India”
CONVENOR:
introduced science education in 1957, postgraduate programmes in
1964, and achieved autonomy in 1991. It was recognised as a College Dr. Bibhu Kalyan Mohanty,
Associate Professor, School of Anthropoogy, GMU
with Potential for Excellence (UGC) and accredited with ‘A’ grade by .GANISED BY: SCHOOL [ROPOLOG
NAAC, leading to its elevation as a unitary university. ORGANISING COMMITTEE:
Today, GMU offers a wide range of UG, PG, and PhD Dr. Meera Swain, Associate Prof. & Head, School of Anthropology,GMU. Gangadhar Meher University,
programmes, supported by modern infrastructure, advanced research Dr, Kalyani Rath, Assistant Professor, School of Anthropology, GMU
facilities, hostels, sports amenities, and digital resources. Committed Dr, Minaketan Bag, Assistant Professor, School of Anthropology, GMU Amput Vihar, Sambalpur, 768004
to the National Education Policy, Indian Knowledge Systems,
Mr. Sachin C. Pujar, Assistant Professor (Guest), School of Anthropology, GMU
multidisciplinary learning, and inclusive development, GMU plays a
Mr, Shubhashish Pandia, Guest Faculty, School of Anthropology, GMU
crucial role in expanding access to quality higher education,
particularly for the tribal and marginalised communities of the region.
ABOUT THE SCHOOL
The School of Anthropology, established in 2019, is committed to
setting a standard of excellence through quality teaching and research.
Sponsored by:
Its vision is to extend and apply anthropological knowledge to promote
inclusive development and bring positive social change. The School a Oail/4
strives to impart quality education by preparing students to become \we/
teat
competent anthropologists equipped to address contemporary societal
On
issues. 23 & 24 March, 2026
The School offers a comprehensive curriculum through
Undergraduate (UG), Postgraduate (PG), and Ph.D. programmes, Venue
fostering a strong academic foundation in anthropology. It places a School of Anthropology, GMU
strong emphasis on experiential learning, providing students. with
opportunities to undertake biocultural studies of diverse communities,
including indigenous tribal populations, identify prehistoric sites along
the River Mahanadi belt, and visit museums annually. Such academic Important Dates
and field-based activities complement classroom learning and
Registration Starts From 1st February, 2026
contribute to the development of trained anthropologists capable of
@ GANGADHAR MEHER UNIVERSITY
contributing to social dynamics and human welfare. Last Date of Registration 15th March, 2026
The School also proudly houses a newly established Abstract Submission Deadline 15th March, 2026
Anthropological Laboratory and Anthropological Museum, offering
Acceptance of Abstract 16th March, 2026
hands-on training and enriching students’ understanding of material
culture and artefacts as living traditions. Full length Paper 20th March, 2026
KEY THEMES KEY OBJEC
India, a land of rich and diverse cultures, showcases its The seminar engages with artefacts as cultural texts that To explore the historical background of a craft
continuity of cultural heritage through artefacts found embody memory, belief, skill, and identity across diverse tradition and find the challenges of its continuity, its
Indian communities. The themes collectively examine
even today in some remote pockets, especially in tribal preservation and its journey from familial to
material culture not merely as objects, but as dynamic
and rural milieus. It reveals their continuity, associated institutional level.
carriers of social knowledge, ecological adaptation, and
with their social obligations, belief systems, and To sensitise the mainstream population about regional
historical continuity.
traditional wisdom. The artefact showcases its regional traditions while creating a sense of pride among the
Tribal Artefacts and Belief Systems:
and cultural heritage, serving as tangible historical people.
Explores the cosmological, ritual, and symbolic dimensions
evidence while protecting its intangible cultural legacy, To have a dialogue on different kinds of challenges,
of artefacts within indigenous communities, where material
a narrative tradition in Indian culture. In an objects function as mediators between the human, natural, which include the availability of resources and the
anthropological museum, each artefact is a living and spiritual worlds. demand of the market, while exploring the kind of
testament to the creative thinking of a craftsman, with e Rural Crafts and Sustainable Practices: innovation needed for sustaining a tradition, including
sustainable and straightforward craftsmanship involved Focuses on traditional craft systems rooted in local ecology, marketing and policy interventions.
emphasizing indigenous _ technologies, _ resource
in its making. Age-old traditions continued to highlight To create a platform for interdisciplinary research
optimization, and community-based models of sustainable
the artefact’s uniquenwehesres, meticulous among academics and artisans so that policymakers
production.
documentation can speak about its richness and can formulate meaningful strategies for the
Intangible Legacies Through Tangible Artefacts:
contemporary relevance. conservation of cultural heritage.
Investigates how oral traditions, skills, values, and collective
memory are encoded and transmitted through material
Scan for Registration
Museums display diverse crafts and mastery forms, linking tangible heritage with intangible cultural
while preserving legacies within specific eco-cultural practices.
zones, which are shaped by readily available and e Regional Diversity and Cultural Inheritance:
sustainable resources, allowing for sustainable Highlights India’s plural cultural landscape by examining
region-specific artefacts as expressions of localized
utilisation practices that lead to continuity.
histories, identities, and inter-community interactions.
« Museum Preservation and Documentation:
The present national seminar, Artefacts Speak:
Addresses curatorial practices, documentation methods,
Indian Knowledge System in Traditions Across India,
and ethical representation, considering museums as sites
invites scholars of repute, young research scholars, CONTACT
where artefacts are conserved, interpreted, and
museum professionals and academia to share their recontextualized for public knowledge.
museoseminargmu@gmail.com
insights on artefacts from across the nation, which may « Contemporary Relevance and Future Pride:
include artefacts from the museum or from personal Examines the adaptation of traditional crafts in modern Mr. Shubhashish Pandia (7606900944)
collections of antique or extinct items, while explaining markets, policy frameworks, and digital platforms,
Mr. Sachin C. Pujar (9591013258)
positioning heritage as a resource for livelihood, identity,
their unique legacies, ‘cultural affinity and a pride for
and cultural confidence in the future.
future generations. Mr. Ashutosh Pradhan ( 9348258035)