Organised by:
Organised by:
SCHOOL OF PSYCHOLOGY
SCHOOL OF PSYCHOLOGY
Date: 26-28 March,2026
Date: 26-28 March,2026
Time: 10.00 am Onwards
Time: 10.00 am Onwards
Hybrid Mode
ABOUT THE GANGADHAR MEHER UNIVERSITY
The school of Psychology assures quality education
Three -Days International Conference
Three -Days International Conference Gangadhar Meher University formerly named as
which fulfils the students’ needs and aspirations. In
on
on
Sambalpur College in 1944, Gangadhar Meher College
the process of growth, it has witnessed several
Mental Health, Social Media and Positive Aging :
in 1949, and Gangahdar Meher Autonomous College
transformations from time to time.
Perspectives from Indian Knowledge System
in 1991. It was upgraded to a university in 2015, which
This department aims to be an island of excellence
(Sponsored by PM-USHA) is a state unitary university situated in Sambalpur,
and provides superior education of merit and
Odisha. It was renamed after the illustrious Odia poet
distinction inclined with new developments and
Swabhaba Kabi “Gangadhar Meher”. The institution
challenges and advanced scientific knowledge through
added another feather in its cap when it was
the basic and applied research. The department has
accredited by the NAAC with an “A” grade in the
synergistic interaction with other departments of the
session 2024-25 in recognition of its excellent
institution as well as other institutions in the state.
performance. The new entity started functioning from
ABOUT THE CONFERENCE
30.05.2015 after its new incarnation. The University
O O r r g g a a n n i i s s e e d d b b y y : : provides UG, PG, and Ph.D. programmes in 23 schools
Mental health is an essential component of overall
across arts, science, commerce and management
SCHOOL OF PSYCHOLOGY
well-being, especially in the rapidly changing digital
SCHOOL OF PSYCHOLOGY
disciplines. Within a short span, it has already made a
era. Social media has become a significant part of
Date: 26-28 March,2026
Date: 26-28 March,2026
mark in the academic arena by providing good quality
everyday life, influencing psychological health, social
Time: 10.00 am Onwards
Time: 10.00 am Onwards
education, conducting national and international
interaction, and lifestyle patterns. At the same time,
Hybrid Mode level seminars and workshops on a regular basis.
the concept of positive aging emphasizes maintaining
physical, emotional, and social well-being in later life.
ABOUT THE SCHOOL OF PSYCHOLOGY
Indian Knowledge Systems, reflected in texts such as
The School of Psychology is one of the oldest schools
the Bhagavad Gita, Upanishads, and the teachings of
in Humanities and Social Sciences. It was started in
Patanjali, offer valuable insights into mental balance,
1st August 1962. The department has been offered Ph.
self-awareness, and healthy living.
D programme from the session 2020-21. 11 Ph.D.
This seminar aims to explore the intersection of
Scholars have been awarded from this department.
mental health, social media influence, and positive
The school of Psychology assures quality education
aging through the lens of traditional Indian wisdom
V V e e n n u u e e : : which fulfils the students’ needs and aspirations. In
and contemporary psychological research.
the process of growth, it has witnessed several
Smart Class Room, R.N.-70, School of Psychology
Smart Class Room, R.N.-70, School of Psychology
transformations from time to time.
Gangadhar Meher University
Gangadhar Meher University
Amruta Vihar, Sambalpur-04, Odisha, India
Amruta Vihar, Sambalpur-04, Odisha, India
6.Digital Inclusion for Older Adults.
7.Ethical and Responsible Social Media Use.
8.Intergenerational Learning in Digital Era.
9.Applied IKS in Modern Life.
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE CONFERENCE
The Conference aims to
understand mental health from the perspective
of Indian knowledge traditions.
examine the influence of social media on
psychological well-being.
promote the concept of positive aging and active
life in older adulthood.
highlight the role of yoga, meditation, and
traditional practices in mental wellness.
encourage academic discussion on integrating
the traditional knowledge with modern lifestyles.
GUIDELINES FOR ABSTRACT
Length of Abstract : 250 words with 4 or 5 key words
Font style : Times New Roman
SUB THEMES OF THE CONFERENCE WHO CAN ATTEND THE CONFERENCE
The conference is open to all subjects for
1.Concept of Mental Health in Indian Knowledge
registration. Academicians, Researchers and
System.
Chief- Patron:
students can participate and interpret their
2.Social Media and Psychological Well-being.
Prof.(Dr.) S.K. Das
innovations in this conference.
3.Positive Aging in Indian Cultural Context.
Vice Chancellor (I/C), G.M. University,
4.Yoga and Meditation for Mental Health Well-being Interested participants can register through
Amruta Vihar, Sambalpur
in Old Age. online and offline. Online registration can be
Advisiors:
5.Ayurveda and Healthy Aging. done by submitting the Google Forms through
Prof. (Dr.) Gyanaranjan Swain
6.Digital Inclusion for Older Adults. following link:
Chairman, P.G. Council G.M. University,
7.Ethical and Responsible Social Media Use. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/134TGvEP_Hj7
Amruta Vihar, Sambalpur
8.Intergenerational Learning in Digital Era. HcksnEWcZ8AUMCg67V_Pl7Vn91r3ZJ1Y/edit
Shri Sanat Kumar Naik
9.Applied IKS in Modern Life. REGISTRATION DETAILS
Registrar, G.M. University,
There will be “on spot registration and online
Amruta Vihar, Sambalpur
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE CONFERENCE
registration” at the registration desk on the
The Conference aims to
sameday.
Convenors:
understand mental health from the perspective
of Indian knowledge traditions. registration fees Dr. Rupashree Goswami
examine the influence of social media on Delegates & Academicians: Rs.800.00 Dr. Sanjukta Padhi
psychological well-being. Research Scholars: Rs.500.00 Dr. Rupashree Brahma Kumari
promote the concept of positive aging and active Smt. Puspa Hembram
Students: Rs.300.00
life in older adulthood.
The above registration fees includes
Co-ordinating Team:
highlight the role of yoga, meditation, and
certificate, high tea, lunch and seminar kit.
traditional practices in mental wellness. Dr. Manoranjan Tripathy
There will be online registration (paying
encourage academic discussion on integrating Mr. Shashibhusan Dora
through QR Code) and spot registration by Smt.Sushree Sangeeta Behera
the traditional knowledge with modern lifestyles.
and all the Research Scholars and Students
paying fees at Registration desk.
GUIDELINES FOR ABSTRACT
Length of Abstract : 250 words with 4 or 5 key words
Font style : Times New Roman
Font size : 12
Line spacing : 1.5
Dr. Manoranjan Tripathy, 6396913562
The paper should be submitted to
smt. puspa hembram, 6371446014
psychologygmu2025@gmail.com in word format with
dr. sanjukta padhi, 7978706852
Author’s Name, Designation, Institutional Affiliation, IMPORTANT DATES
Contact Number and E-mail Id in APA style. The Last date for Abstract submission is 18.03.2026
acceptance of abstract shall be communicated after a
Last date for Full Paper submission is 24.03.2026
strict review.