GANGADHAR MEHER UNIVERSITY,
AMRUTA VIHRA, SAMBALPUR-768004
No a5 aoloz202b
/GMU Date
To,
All Heads/ Coordinators of Schools,
Gangadhar Meher University,
Sir/ Madam,
You are hereby requested to inform 1 year U.G. (Semester-II) students
of your concerned schools to fill-up the entries in the format for allotting MDC-II and
Minor-IIc ourses. The filled in format shall be forwarded to the Academic Section on or
before 05.03.2026 by 4.00 PM. Further, students should be advised to choose one
subject as Multi Disciplinary Course in Semester - I. Also students shall choose
one subject as Core- III (Minor - II), which shall be studied for 2nd, 4th and 6h.
semester respectively. English is a compulsory subject for all students for
Semester- II. They should be instructed to exercise their option cautiously to avoid any
confusion / complication in future. The list of MDC - II and Core III (Minor-1)
courses offered by different schools is annexed for reference.
Chairman, PG Council
Memo No. Date
Copy to Notice Boards / PA to VC/ PA to Registrar / COE / OIC, Academics / Deputy Registrar
System Manager Cell for information and necessary action.
Chairman, PG Council
List of Major Discipline Courses (MDC)) & Core III (Minor -II) offered by different Schools
For students of Semester - II (2025-26)
SI. Name of the Name of Papers (To be opted by students of other schools)
No. Schools
Core -III( Minor)
MDC– II( Sem-II)
(For Semester 2"d, 4" & 6" respectively)
1. Application of Anthropology
Anthropology Sustainable Tourism
2. Introduction to Biological Anthropology
(Arts & Science)
3. Demographic Anthropology
1. Cell Biology
Botany Tissue Culture of Plants
2. Basic Molecular Biology
3. Natural Resource Management
1. Atomic Structure, Periodicity of
3 Chemistry Environmental Chemistry
Elements and Chemical Bonding
2. Fundamental Organic Chemistry
3. States of matter and lonic equilibrium
Electricity and Magnetism (P-I)
4 Physics
Bio-Physics 2 Wave and Optics
3. Solid State Physics
Comp. Science Introducation to Web 1. Data Structure
Technologies 2. Object Oriented Programming using C++
3. Algorithm Design Techniques
Zoology Vermitechnology 1. Cell-Biology
2. Physiology-Life Sustaining System
3. Developmental Biology
Linear Programming Problem 1. Introduction to Algebra & Number
7 Mathematics
Theory
(Arts & Science)
2. Linear Algebra
3. Numerical Analysis & Scientific
Computing
8 Statistics Survival Analysis 1. Probability and Distribution
2. Statistical Quality Control
(Arts & Science)
3. Non-Parametric Statistical Inference
1. Basic Economics- II
Economics Demography
2. Public Economics I
3. Money & Banking
Historical Bases of Indian 1. Pedagogical Perspective in Education
.10 Education
Education 2. Knowledge and Curriculum
3. Fundamentals of Educational Research
Gender Human Rights 1. British Poetry and Drama
English
2. The Romantic Revival and English
Literature of the Period
3. Indian Myths and Epics: New
Perspectives
12 Geography Climatology 1. Population Geography
(Arts & Science) 2. Remote Sensing and GIS
3. Geography of India
Hindi Avadharana aur prayojanmulak 1. Krishna Bhakti and Retikaleen Kavita
.Aayak |2. Sahitya aur sandarbh Vividhavad
3. Tulsi Sahitya aur Darshan
14 History History of Environment and 1. History of India (From Pre-History to
ecology of Modern India Vedic Age)
|2. History of India-II: From State formation
to carly medieval (300 BCE-750CE)
3. History of India-III (C.1857-1950)
Odia
2. aIG4 AA
16 Philosophy Critical Thinking & Applied
1. Introduction to Philosophy
Reasning
|2. Introduction to Moral Philosophy
3. Symbolic Logic
17 Pol. Science Understanding Gandhi and
1. Comparative Governments
Ambedkar 2. India Politics
3. Government and Politics in Odisha
18 Psychology Educational Psychology
1. Basic Psychological Process
2. Basic Developmental Process
3. Introductory Psychology
19 Sanskrit Fundamentals of Sanskrit Grammar
1. Drama and History of Sanskrit Literature
2. Sri Jagannath Skandamahapurana (Utkal
Khand
3. Likhana Kala
20 Sociology Crime and Society . Indian Society
|2. Sociology of Environment
3. Sociology of Health
21 B.Sc. IST Programming on C++ 1. Data Structure Using C
|2. Operating System
3. Software Engineering
22 Commerce Entreprenuurship Development 1. Business Statistics & Data Interpretation
2. Business Regulatory Framework
3. Human Resource Management or
Mathematics
Chairman, PG Council