Applied Econometrics and Its
Applications in Business ResearchApplied Econometrics and Its
Applications in Business ResearchPM USHA Sponsored
National Workshop on
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
13th – 14th March 2026About the Workshop
Econometrics plays an important role in business and management research. It helps
researchers analyze data, test theories, and make informed decisions. This two-day
workshop aims to provide participants with both theoretical understanding and
practical exposure to econometric tools used in business research. The workshop will
focus on basic to advanced econometric techniques and their application using real
business data.
Objectives of the Workshop
To provide clear understanding of econometric concepts
To introduce commonly used econometric models in business research
To provide hands-on training in data analysis and interpretation
To enhance research skills of faculty members, scholars, and students
Dr. Dukhabandhu Sahoo
Associate Professor
School of Humanities,
Social Sciences & Management
Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar
Dr. Ashish Dash
Assistant Professor
Department of Economics
Odisha State Open UniversitySchool of Commerce
Gangadhar Meher University, Amruta Vihar, SambalpurResource Persons
Organised byDr. Bimal Kishore Sahoo
Associate Professor (Economics) 
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences
Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur
Who Should Participate
The workshop is open to researchers from all disciplines, academicians,
research scholars, and industry professionals.Patrons
Prof. Susanta Kumar Das, Vice Chancellor (I/C)
Prof. Gyana Ranjan Swain, Chairman, PG Council
Shri Sanat Kumar Naik, Registrar
Dr. Chandan Sahu, Deputy Registrar (I/C)
Shri Jagannath Rout, Comptroller of Finance
Organizing Secretaries
Mr. Ambaris Pratap Singh, Assistant Professor
Ms. Jhansi Rani Parida, Assistant Professor
Ms. Shubheschha Nayak, Assistant Professor
Mr. Bikash Sethy, Research Scholar
Ms. Aruna Sharma, Research Scholar
Registration Link: https://forms.gle/uMPKzazLwhq9UgSM6
SCAN TO
REGISTER
For Registration, Contact
Email: socseminar@gmail.com
Mobile: 9938525597 / 9583565354Conveners
Mr. Subash Ch Jhankar, Assistant Professor & Coordinator
Dr. Priyabrata Panda, Assistant Professor
Dr. Gnyana Ranjan Bal, Assistant Professor
Ms.Saroja Meher, Assistant ProfessorDay 1
Introduction to Applied Econometrics in Business Research
Introduction to Econometrics: Meaning, objectives, and role of econometrics
in business research.
Importance and Applications: Use of econometrics in policy making,
business analysis, financial markets, and development studies.
Types of Data in Econometrics:
Cross-sectional data
Time series data
Panel data
Sources and basic issues in data.
Day 2
Advanced Econometric Techniques for Business Analytics
Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) Model: Concept, lag selection,
bounds test, and estimation of short-run and long-run relationships.
Non-linear ARDL (NARDL) : Understanding asymmetric relationships
and estimation of positive and negative shocks.
Estimation and Diagnostic Tests: Model estimation, interpretation of
results, and diagnostic tests such as serial correlation,
heteroskedasticity, normality, and stability tests.Workshop Director
Prof (Dr.) Shyama Charan Acharya
Co Conveners
Dr. Khirod Ch. Maharana, Assistant Professor
Dr. Mukesh Ku Sharma, Assistant Professor
Dr. Pooja Bai Kewat, Assistant Professor
