PM-USHA SPONSORED ESTEEMED PATRONS KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
NATIONAL SEMINAR
CHIEF PATRON
ON Prof. Karuna Kar Nanda
Prof. Susanta Kumar Das
Director
RECENT TRENDS OF
Vice Chancellor(I/C)
Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar
RESEARCH IN MATERIAL
G. M. Univeristy
SCIENCE AS A REQUIREMENT
ADVISORS Dr. Rama Krushna Sabat
OF NEP-2020
Prof. Gyanaranjan Swain Associate professor
(RTRMS-2026)
Chairman, P.G. Council IIT Bhubaneswar
G. M. University
Date: 24th and 25th March, 2026
Prof. Banarji Behera
Sanat Kumar Naik
VENUE: Day-1-Lecture Gallery -1 Professor
Registrar
(LG-1) Sambalpur University
G. M. Univeristy
Day-2 - Narayani Panda Resource
Centre Dr. Sumanta Samal
CONVENOR Associate Professor
Dr Namita Shadangi IIT Indore
HOD School of Physics
Dr. Sunanda Patri,
CO-CONVENORS Associate Professor
Dr Ananata Prasad Chakraverty VSSUT Burla
Assistant Professor
And Dr. Manoj Kumar Mohapatra
Organised by
Dr Pranati Purohit Senior Assistant Professor
School of Physics
Assistant Professor Silicon Institute of Technology
Gangadhar Meher University,
School of Physics, (SIT-West), Sambalpur
Amruta Vihar G. M. University
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sahoo
Sambalpur-768004
ORGANISING TEAM Assistant Professor
Odisha, India
Govt Women's College,
Dr Pramoda Kumar Samal, Associate
Sambalpur
Professor
Dr Gangadhar Behera, Assistant Professor
Dr. Dipak Rout
Dr Jasabanta Sekhar Hansdah, Assistant
Assistant Professor
Professor
Dr Bibhuti Bhusan Das, Assistant Professor Govt. Autonomous College,
Dr Anupama Swain, Assistant Professor Sundergarh
Dr Sugandha Das, Assistant Professor
ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY ABOUT THE SEMINAR CALL FOR PAPERS
Gangadhar Meher University (GMU), Sambalpur, The National Seminar on Recent Trends of Researchers, academicians, research
has come into being on the 30th May 2015 by Research in Material Science a requirement of scholars, and students are invited to submit
governmentofOdisha. Alongawaitedmomenthas NEP-2020 (RTRMS-2026) is an gathering of originalresearchpapers
come to be fulfilled for the youth and people of the
Physicists, Scientists and Researchers in the Send your abstract to :
region aspiring for higher education. Another
fieldof Physics andmaterial scienceorganized
seminarphysicsgmu@gmail.com
landmark was the recognition by the University
to share ideas and discuss the latest
Grants Commission accreditation with “A” grade by Paper Submission guidelines: Abstract
advancements in their respective fields. The
National Assessment and Accreditation Council should be prepared in 200-250 words with 4-
seminar including keynote speeches, poster
(NAAC) in 2025. Implementing New Education presentations that focus on various topics 5 key words.
policy with necessary emphasis on Indian
related to Materials, Condensed Matter Physics,
Knowledgesystem(IKS),impartingmultidisciplinary IMPORTANT DATES
Advanced Materials Synthesis etc. It provides a
education with employable skill sets, establishing
platform for professionals from academia,
industry linkages, striving for cutting edge research AbstractSubmission by:18.03.2026
industry, and government to network and
and publication and, most important of all, reaching collaborate, and to learn from one another's Abstractacceptance:20.03.2026
out to the marginalised sections, especially the
experiences and expertise. This seminar also
tribal communities of region, G M University is
acts as a forum for students and early career
pursuing its well-defined institutional goals with scientists to present their work and engage REGISTRATION
dedicationandcommitment
with senior researchers and scholars. The
seminar features renowned speakers, leading Registration is free for GMU participants
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT experts,andallofwhomcontributesignificantly Registration fees –Rs. 300/-(For out side
to the knowledge-sharing process and create a
participants only)
highly impactful experience for attendees. We
The department was established in 1957. The Registration Link
warmly welcome the faculty members and
departmenthasalongstandinghistoryofexcellence https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQL
in teaching and research. At present, the school research scholars and students participating in
SdWTCeHxORHukj274ki8t96PYC2giwnRYH-
offersDoctorateprogramme(PhD),twoyearsmaster thisseminar
degreecourse(M.Sc.)andthreeyearsundergraduate 4GTIyx2K1PL4Jg/viewform?usp=header
course in Physics (B.Sc.). Choice Based Credit
RELATED THEMES
System (CBCS) syllabus. Also syllabus for UG
studentasperNewEducationPolicyhasbeenframed
and opened for the students taking admission from Dielectrics
2024-25batchonwards. Ferroelectrics & Multiferroics
Faculties are associated with research activities in  Energy Storage Devices
the area like LASERS/optoelectronics, Theoretical Magnetism
Condensed Matter Physics, Cosmology (theory and Nanomaterials
data analysis), Polymer/FRP composites, industrial
Photonics and Plasmonics;
waste utilization, Nano materials, Piezoelectric ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
materials, Photonics/Metamaterials, Solid State Polymer and composite
Physics (experimental). About 40 research papers Semiconductor Materials Devices
Dr. AnanataPrasdadChakraverty
werepublishedinScopus/WoSreputedjournalssince strongly correlated system
2020. The average number of citations of the papers Email.anantac8@gmail.com
Surface, Interface Phenomena
published by all the faculties is 367.28 . At present, apchakraverty@gmuniversity.ac.in
about 15 numbers of PhD scholars are continuing Superconductivity
Mob.No :7008431131
their doctorate programme. All the students of the Thin Films, Devices
departments are also monitored through their Interdisciplinary Topics Relevant to DrPranatiPurohit,
respective mentors. The School also facilitates very
Condensed Matter Systems pranatipurohit@gmail.com
good connectivity with alumni and parents of the
UG/PGstudents. Astrophysics and Cosmology Mob.No :9891676795